$Id: INSTALL,v 1.2 2002/09/17 06:24:10 deven Exp $

This document describes how to build and install the Gangplank CMC server.

Use "./configure --help" to see the configuration options available.  Use
"./configure" alone to configure with the defaults.  After configuring,
build the server with "make" and install it with "make install".

The default TCP port number is 9999.  Use the "--enable-port" configure
option to change this.  For example, "--enable-port=23" will use the
standard port for the TELNET protocol.  This would require running the
server as root to bind to the privileged port.  There is currently no code
to give up root privileges, so use caution.  If a port number over 1024 is
used, any user can run the server.

If a "guest" login is not desired, use the "--disable-guest" option.

The default server executable pathname is "/usr/local/bin/gangplank"; change
this in "restart.c" and "event.cc" if the server is to be installed elsewhere.

After verifying the Makefile and making any necessary changes in the source,
type "make" to build the server binary.  If this results in errors, please
send relevant information to <build-help@gangplank.org> for assistance.

Only use "make install" to install the server as "/usr/local/bin/gangplank".
Otherwise, copy or move the binary to the installation location.  Also, copy
or move the "restart" and "makepw" programs to suitable locations if they are
to be used.

The server expectes to find a "~/lib/gangplank" directory under the user it
runs as.  If this directory does not exist, it will be created to store the
server logs.  The server's password file should also be placed in this same
directory.  (Since the password file is read dynamically when needed, there
is no need to restart the server after modifying the password file.)

Copy the example password file to "~/lib/gangplank/passwd" for the correct
user, and edit it to create server accounts.  The default file contains a
sample administrative account for the author.  The field containing "100" is
a privilege level (NOT a user ID number!) -- guest users have a privilege
level of 0 (and are not allowed to detach), while normal users should have a
privilege level of 10.  Only administrative users should have a privilege
level as high as 100; they are allowed to nuke user sessions and shut down
the server, etc.

If the password file is not found, only accounts hardcoded in "user.cc" will
work until a password file is put in place.  By default, this is the "guest"
account only, but administrative and/or accounts can easily be added also.

The "restart" program was designed to run every minute from cron, to ensure
that the server remains running.  It attempts to bind to the server's port,
and assumes the server is running okay if it CANNOT bind to the port.  If it
successfully binds to the port, it assumes the server is not running, and
launches it.  To use this program, add an appropriate "* * * * *" entry to
the crontab of the user which will run the server.  It is critical that the
server pathname and port number hardcoded in "restart.c" be correct.

The "makepw" program is a simple utility to encrypt Unix-style passwords,
either by prompting for input or taking a cleartext password as an argument.
This is a straightforward way to apply crypt(3) encryption to passwords for
use in the password file.
